So if you want to turn your Bibles to Matthew 10, Matthew chapter 10, we're going to start at verse 16 this morning. and this is right on the heels of Jesus sending out the apostles to spread the gospel. So when he says the apostles out, he knew that they were faced opposition. So we have to ask ourselves, how are we any different? How are we an different? Do we face opposition when we take the gospel to the world? Well, certainly we do. Certainly we do. Is the church facing opposition in the world today? Well certainly it is. And really, that hasn't changed much since the days of Jesus. And He gave us this teaching and other teachings that I'm going to bring in this morning too, to prepare. And we have to remember that God in many times will use persecution for His glory, amen. There are reasons for persecution. So let's look at Matthew 10. Starting in verse 16. And this is Jesus teaching here. He says "Behold, I'm sending you out a sheep into the midst of the wolves. So be wise as serpents, and innocent as doves. Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to the court and fog you in their synagogues. And you will be dragged before governors and kings for My sake, to bear witness before them and the Gentiles. When they deliver you over, do not be anxious how you are to speak or what you are to say, for what you are to say will be given to you in that hour. For it is not you who speak but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you. Brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father, his child and the children will rise against the parents and have them put to death. And you will be hated by all for my namesake. But the one who adores to the end will be saved. When they persecute you in one town flee to the next. For truly I say to you, you will not have gone through all the towns of Israel before the Son of man comes." Let us pray over that scripture. Dear Heavenly father, Dear Lord be with us this morning. Lord, bless us with with understanding, bless us and help us to take this scripture, dear lord. Take it and learn it and use it. Lord prepare us. Dear Lord prepare us for what persecution is in the world now and what persecution might be coming. Dear Lord as the world appears to become becoming more and more dark and evil by the day. The Lord help us to be strong, to be steadfast, and to be unwavering in our devotion to you. In Christ's name we pray, Amen. 

So 16 "Behold, I'm thinking about a sheep in the midst of the wolves." Does that seem a little odd? I mean, honestly, does that seem a little odd? That Jesus would say that, because who is he? He's the Great Shepherd, amen. He's a great shepherd. He's saying, I'm sending my sheep out into the midst of the wolves. Does a shepherd protect his sheep from the wolves? Well, that's what we have to understand there. That even though Jesus would send his disciples out and send us out to the world, in the midst of the wolves, that we still have this protection, Amen. Now, we should not take that the wrong way. We should not say that we are bulletproof when we go out into the world, amen. That no harm could ever come to us. How do we know that that is untrue? Well, we can look at this the resume examples. Amen. Remember, well, one of them, betrayed jesus and took his own life but not counting him. That leaves eleven. Ten of those were what? Ten of those were persecuted and killed! Only John the bbeloved. John the Apostle, lived out his natural life. The rest of them were ultimately persecuted and killed. They were sacrificed as some in the very same way that Christ was killed upon a Roman Cross. He sent them out in the midst of wolves. Now, people will say what kind of God would do something like that? Well, a God that has spiritually blessed us, that if we are his children, if we are saved, if we have accepted the free gift of God's grace, if we have accepted that work of Christ on the cross, then it doesn't matter what happens to us. It doesn't matter! What does the Bible say? Don't worry about the ones that can harm the physical body. Worry about the one that can harm the soul. And then we're here temporarily in this physical body. In the wolves may attack. Paul knew that the wolves were coming. 

Over in acts 20, you don't have to turn there, but I'll read it. In acts 20. Paul was was in our southern English, we would say it was fixing to leave ephesus right. He was preparing to leave ephesus that he said this: "Pay careful attention to yourselves. And to all the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to take care for the Church of God, which he obtained with his own blood. I know that after my departure, feirce wolves will come out among you. Not sparing the flock, and from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things to draw away the disciples after them." 

What was Paul Saying? Paul's saying that the church in Ephesus, faces the same thing that we're facing now. Right? The same thing, that there are going to be false prophets that were right, false teachers that would arise that would twist things. They would try to lead people astray. Because what the wolves try to do? What do wolves or coyotes try to do? When they attack a flock, or herd, what do they want to do? They want to pick off the weaklings, right? Pick off the ones that are hobbling a little bit, the smaller, the immature ones. That's how predators work. Predators are not going to go after the matriarch or the patriarch of the of the herd. Initially, they're going to kind of take off the weak ones. So what do we need to do? We need to strengthen the flock Amen. We need to prepare the flock for persecution. We need to help them understand that if it's God's will for you to go out and preach the gospel that it may be God's will for you to come under persecution as well. But be ready for that persecution, and be ready- be able to recognize it. 

Verse 17, and 18:" Beware of men." That should really go without saying right? "Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to the court and flog you in their synagogues." You have to pay attention to what what Jesus is saying here. These are the religious authorities of the day. And we know they did that to the disciples. We can read through the book of Acts, Peter and John. Other ones. They were rounded up what what were they they were in prison, they were beaten. They were told not to preach the Word of God. Forget about preaching Jesus, cause you're making too much trouble for us in Jerusalem. In 18, he says "you will be dragged before Governors." Okay, so what do we have here? Jesus switched gears a little bit. He says, You could be even persecuted in a church in the Synagogue, and then when they're done with you, they're gonna drag you over to the civil authorities in front of the magistrate, in front of the kings, in front of the governor. Look at what he says there. Look at what Jesus says there. He said, When they drag you over infront the government officials, take that opportunity to share Christ with them. If they want to put you on the stand, and make you testify about what you've been doing, God has given you the opportunity to stand up and boldly proclaim Christ to the world system. And this is what they did many times. And they brought him in to court, they would say, Well, let me tell you what we're preaching. We're preaching Christ, and we're going to continue to preach Christ. And there's nothing you can do short of killing me to stop me from preaching Christ. We should pray that we would be as bold as these original disciples, as these original apostles and this word, we look at the word here, and in verse 17, it says, deliver you up or delivered you over depending on which translation you have here. Now, this is actually a legal technical phrase that Jesus is using here, that it means that you would hand over a prisoner for punishment. This is what this means. So there's the technical word, he says that you've been convicted, and they're going to hand you over to authorities for your punishment.

Now, Jesus saw this very same thing in his ministry. Remember, he went through the six trials, three before the religious officials and three before the government officials. Same thing. And they didn't want to him? They treated him like a prisoner. And they handed him over to the government to the Roman authorities, to beat him and to kill him. Beat him and kill him. Turn over to John chapter 16. John, chapter 16, for just a moment, it's always a good study, when you're going through the Bible, to let the Bible speak for itself, to let christ speak about these issues, and we're setting his words in Matthew, and we're gonna look at his words again here in John 16: 1-4.  "I said, all these things to keep you from falling away, they will put you out of the synagogue. Indeed the hour is coming when whoever killed you will think he is offering service to God. And they will do these things because they have not known the father nor me. But I have said these things to you that when their hour comes, you may remember that I told them to you." 

Telling them straight up, that if you preach the gospel strong enough, that you're going to come under persecution, you're going to come under opposition, perhaps even from inside the church. When they deliver you over some translations say do not worry here other say Do not be anxious, if the old translations say Do not worry, that that literally means do not be anxious. So whichever translates you have, it means the exact same thing, "how you are to speak, or what you are to say, for what you are to say will be given to you in that hour." Now. Here, what we need to understand about this is that people should not take this scripture out of context, and use this as an excuse for laziness, or complacency in your study of the Word. This means we this does not mean that we don't have to prepare amen?

Paul, when he was going through the spiritual armor, the whole armor of God. He got down to the sword, he said, we have to wield the sword. The sword is the word. If you were a warrior in those days, think about the imagery that Paul was using there. If you were a Roman warrior those days, they are the big swords. If you want to get good with a sword, what you have to do, you have to practice, right? You have to take that sword out of the saddle. And you got to practice, you got to get good with it, you had to have muscle memory, you had to strengthen your upper body to wield that big sword. The same is with us with the word if we want to weild the sword of the word we need to exercise our minds Amen. We need to have our mind prepared, we should not look at the scripture say, Well, all I gotta do just sit back. God's going to tell me what I need to say I got to do nothing.

I don't think that if you've never opened the Bible and never came to the study, that you'll be very productive when this happens. Now, you don't have to raise your hands, but this ever happened to you. Something comes up in conversation, all of a sudden, this verse comes back to your memory, right? And this study this context, this parable, whatever it is, comes back to your memory. And you know right then that that's the Holy Spirit saying this is what God has chosen for me to say in this particular moment that this is the message that he wants me to give to my audience right now. Well, how did you have that memory? You had to put it in there to start with right? You had to some point, at least read that and study that a little bit that God would recall that to your memory. I've never been one that's been great with remembering the exact chapter and exact verse. That's why I got all these notes when i stand up here. But God give you when you study. And when you commit to learning it. God is gonna give that appropriate scripture the appropriate teaching to you at the appropriate time. Amen. Do we believe that? Don't don't use this as an excuse. Don't don't use this excuse. But it's also to the over arching messages there is don't fret about it. Put in the work up front. You don't have to be saying, well, if this comes up, what sqripture am I gonna say? If this comes up what Scripture am I going to say? That's God's work right there. That's where the Holy Spirit is going to say, he's already prepared you. When that situation arises, he's gonna put that - those words in your mouth, and you're gonna say it. And that's what God wants you to say. That's what verse 19 is talking about. Be prepared, be prepared. If you want to get good at anything, you have to practice that you have to work at it a little bit. 

Verse 20: "For, it is not you who speak but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you." 

Jesus is building on this, so and one thing he's talking about here, there's a cultural reference here to what was going on, is that when, when the persecution would come, either by the hands of the Jewish officials, or by the hands of the Gentile, the government officials, he's saying let God speak through you. What he's saying there also is do not act as is the, the way the pagans acted. So what the pagans would do in this time is they would go and they would hire professional oraters, professional speakers, to go speak for them. That's phony, isn't it? The words should come from the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit's should be guiding us. That's what God, through Jesus, is saying here that don't be like these pagan. Who's gonna hire somebody. God is saying I've already equiped you with your defense. I've already equipped you with your defense. Turn over to Acts 4 for just a second, we going to look at a real biblical example of that. Acts 4 verse five. This is Peter. We know that Peter saw a lot of accusations, a lot of persecution when he was preaching. He was effectively spreading the gospel and people will push it back. 

Acts 4 verse five, "Over the next day, their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem and anais the high priest, and Caibus and John, and Alexander, and all who are of the high priestly family. And when they had set them in the midst, they inquire, by what power or by what name, do you do this?" Then look at verse eight, "Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, rulers of the people and elders, if we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man has been healed. Let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, who was crucified, who God raised from the dead by him, this man is standing before you well." 

Look at what Peter did! Peter said, If you're going to inquire me? Guess what I'm gonna give you the straight up truth him. This is the work of Christ, and not only to say Christ healed him, He gave the gospel in the same testimony. Because Peter is filled with the Holy Spirit. 

Go on to verse 11, "This, Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you." Then Peter calls them out, calls them out, "rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone." And finally, finally, verse 12, one of the most important verses that you'll read in the book of acts, "and there is salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved." 

Look at what Peter did. Peter yielded to the Spirit. Peter, yielded to the spirit. The heart of the gospel is right here. The heart of the Gospel, Jesus is two things. Two very simple yet important things. Jesus heals, Amen. Jesus heals. He healed the sick, he heals the cripple, he heals the sinful. And secondly, there is no other way. There is no other way. The world right now is full speed ahead with their many ways. This is nothing new. But it's being pushed. It's pushed especially to our young people. There's other ways to have celebrity athletes, you name it. entertainers. They're all telling us lies. We know it's a lie because the Bible says it's a lie. Amen. There's only one way to the throne. Jesus said that himself. Said no one can come to the Father except through christ. That's it. there are no other ways. 

21 and 22: This sound familiar? "Brother will deliver brother over to death and father his child and children will rise against the parents and have them put to death and you will be hated by all for my namesake. But the one who adores to the end will be saved."

That's prophecy there. Prophecy. Turn turn over to Matthew 24. Turn to Matthew 24 Starting verse 9. 40 Matthew 24 Verse 9. Matthew 24 and 25 are prophetic chapters. Christ says "Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death. You will be hated by all nations for my namesake," this is the end times prophecy here that the Christians in the Christian church is going to be hated in the end time. Can we see that building? Can we see that building right now? "And then many will fall away and betray one another, hate one another, and many false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold." How about that verse right there? How about that verse, the love of many will grow cold. Do we see that? Is the world becoming a colder place? It's been going away for a long time, we're just we're seeing that now more and more. "But the one who endures to the end will be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaim throughout the world as a testimony to all nations in the image of God," I referenced that in Sunday School this morning. And I asked that question, do you think we're close to the gospel being preached all night?

I think we're pretty close. Pretty close. What's the message for us in 21 and 22? What how do we apply that to us an individual Disciples of Christ in the year 2022, how we find out to us? Perseverance: that's the message there. Hang in there til the end. Don't give up, don't fall away. Don't fall away. Don't back down. When *unintelligible* future comes, rely on God to be your protection, and your defense. Because if you're saved, it doesn't matter what they're gonna do to you. We can see that in testimony of Paul. At the end of Paul's life, Paul said he was being poured out. He was ready. He said he'd run run the race. He'd done what God wanted him to do. Persevere, persevere to the end. 

23 Now, I'm going to give you some, some ways to look at verse 23. Here the debate of Scripture 43 "When they persecute you in one town." This part's easy, right? "Flee to the next." Flee to the next. When they persecute you in one town move on.