We're gonna look at a passage in Second Corinthians this morning. So if you would turn over a second Corinthians chapter one, we're going to look at verses three through 11. Second Corinthians chapter one, three through 11. Paul writes here, “blessed to be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our afflictions, so that we may be able to comfort those who are any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly and comfort to, if we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation. And if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer our hope for you is unshaken. For we know, that you share in our sufferings and you will also share in our comfort. For we do not want you to be unaware brothers, of the affliction we experience in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength, that we despaired of life itself, indeed, we felt that we had received a sentence of death. But that was to make us rely on ourselves. But on God who raises the dead, He delivered us from such deadly peril, and will deliver He will deliver us, on him we have said our hope that he will deliver us again. You also must help us by prayer. So that many will give thanks on our behalf for the blessing granted us through the prayers of many.” Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, the Lord as we come to this passage, in Second Corinthians, We know there are many, many, many people that need comfort door, we, we lift them up, we pray for them this morning. There are many bereaved families, there are many that are sick, there are many that have troubles. Do all we pray for your comfort to be upon them? Do all we pray that, that you would show us like Paul saying here that you will show us how to comfort other people from our afflictions? And do all we pray in the name of Jesus? Amen. So what Paul is expressing here to the Corinthians, is that Christians are not immune from suffering, amen. And that we are told in many places in the Bible, that suffering will come upon us. What we're told is how we're supposed to react in the Bible. And Paul points out two very important things. Here is that it right here, and I'm going to get to this again, but right near the end, he says that his hope is unshaken. And he also asked for prayer. That should be the main takeaway, as we come to this passage. That Paul, is this great preacher, great missionary, great man of faith that we have all these books written by in the New Testament. At the end of the day, Paul said that we must have hope in Christ, and we must continue to pray as a matter of fact, over and to Thessalonians he said that we should pray with what, without ceasing. That prayer should be an integral part of our life. In verse three here, and the second Corinthians passage, “blessed to be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort.” Well, Paul uses the title of Lord here in front of Jesus Christ. And he wants to make sure that we understand and his readers understood that Christ is the Lord overall. Amen. That he has supreme authority, that he is the absolute ruler, no matter what the world thinks, that Christ is still in control. And that God is in control of all circumstances. Amen. And this can be very troubling for us because we don't always understand why we don't understand why God put, put Paul, and others through all these struggles. And he puts us through these struggles. Paul calls it affliction. And in verse four, we don't understand why. But we do know that Paul's writing here that God is the God of all comfort. And over and Isaiah chapter 40, it says, “Comfort, comfort my people, says the Lord. the Lordship of Christ, is the fountain of Mercy, and the fountain of all comfort.” And this is how we learn to comfort others, by the leadership of Christ. In verse four, Paul says, and he's talking about God here, who comforts us in some of our afflictions? No, it says, all comforts us in all of our afflictions. So no matter what we're going through, whether it's personal struggles, sickness, loss of a loved one, or anything, anything that we su-, we're suffering with anything that afflicts us, Paul saying that God is our comfort, that we should look to God. So he continues on so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction. So here's one of the answers to the question that we pose from time to time, why do we have affliction? Why do we have struggles? Why? Why does God put us through all of this? Why? So that we may be able to comfort those, in any affliction. So there, we can look to say why? Why did Paul go through everything he went through. So he could be a better comfort, he can be a better minister, he can be a better servant of God. And the same applies to us. We're gonna have some hard times. Have we been through some hard times? We have, right? Will we continue to go through some hard times in our lives, of course. And it's by design, as part of God's will, that we would have some hard times and that's, that can be very troubling. People say, Well, if God loves me, why is he doing this to me? Why Am I Suffering? Well, you're suffering because God does love you. And God does two things from our suffering. One, he prepares us to minister to others. And two, he draws us closer to him. That we know we have to rely on him more. In Romans five, Paul writes, "not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that our sufferings produce endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope." There's that word there that Paul is given us, hope, that we can have hope. So one of the purposes of Gods suffering for Christians, is that we would be able to experience the direct, personal comfort from God. Well think about that. This is going to deepen our relationship with God when we have struggles and suffering, that we're going to know God better. And it's all for God's great will. He desires to know us better, amen. And we should desire to know him better. God wants a very deep, intimate relationship with each and every one of us. And if our lives were, were picture perfect, and we had no struggles, how much would we indeed rely on God? Each of us has to answer that question ourselves only. God is working on a plan for each and every one of us. And he's working in our lives that we would ultimately be able to serve him better, that we would be a better disciple, and that we would be able to disciple others based on what he's taught us. Verse five, "for as we share abundantly in Christ sufferings, so through Christ, we share abundantly and comfort too" what Paul All saying here is that not the suffering that Christ did on the cross. Not that suffering. We know that only that, that suffering was only reserved for Christ. But we're talking about the other suffering that he had in his life. The Paul say that we should look to Christ is our example, how he handled things. And one of the- ,and  we use this many, many times and one of the things that we can remember is the Garden of Gethsemane. When Christ was suffering, to point of sweating blood, what did he say? Not his will, but the Father's will. He submitted to the Father. Jesus knew that his followers would endure suffering. And I use this this passage last week, as a matter of fact, and Luke nine, he said, If anyone would come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow Me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses life, for my sake was saving. take up his cross. Just picture Christ carrying that cross, when they sentenced him to death, if you remember the story, and they'd already beaten him, and then they gave him the wooden cross and said, you have to carry it up to the hill. You got to carry it. Great physical and emotional strain that he had to endure. Because of that, we can have comfort. Paul uses this word abundantly here in verse five. abundantly, mean that God is not lacking in his blessing for us. That God blesses us abundantly, that if we struggle abundantly, he has conquered abundantly, amen. That he's there for us. We should- we need to cry out to him during these times, of difficult, verse six, “if we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation, and if we are comforted it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings, that we suffer” patiently endure. we had this discussion at our Sunday school lesson this morning about Jacob and Esau and the blessing and, and how we want everything so fast. In our in our world, we want it now. We're not a very patient people anymore. God uses suffering to do what? To develop patience in us. We can look at Job, job suffered immensely. To develop patience. And what ultimately Paul is saying here in verse six is that all of Paul's individual sufferings, all of Paul's individual sufferings, work to bring glory to God. That might seem like a very foreign concept to us, that we would struggle to bring glory to God. Remember, none of this is about our glory. Amen. None of this is about our glory. It's about God's glory. And suffering, as I said earlier, is used to draw men to God. Seven “our hope for you is unshaken” unshaken. Paul did not lose sight of hope. He knew that his hope was in Christ, and nothing else. His hope was not in other men or solutions of the world, his hope for his provision, and his comfort and his healing was in Christ. For we know that as you share in our sufferings, you also share in our comfort. Paul wanted them to understand that comfort and salvation were from Christ and Christ alone. And that he was teaching him that and even though he suffered greatly if you read overthrew the book of Acts, you can see that Paul was afflicted in many ways. He was beaten he was shipwrecked he was jailed. He says he was hungry. At times, he had all these great tribulations that he went through, but he never lost hope. Ev- even when he was at the hands of the Romans, facing his own death, he was looking to God. He said that he was being poured out, like a drink offering to God. He knew that his death was ultimately for God's glory. Even to the end, Paul knew that. one of the problems that we have is that we sometimes think we're strong enough to handle it on our own Amen. We think we've got it all covered. We're thinking that we're a strong person, and we've got everything under control. But what does God do? God uses suffering to humble us. And to make us rely on him, verses eight, nine and 10. “For we do not want you to be unaware of brothers of the affliction we experienced in Asia, for we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength, that we despaired of life itself. Indeed, we felt that we had reached the sentence of death, received a sentence of death, Excuse me, but that was to make us rely not on ourselves, but on God, he raises the dead.” They see what Paul saying here, that that he was in such despair here, he thought he was gonna lose his own life. He said, that wasn't about Paul. That was about God. That was about bringing Paul to rely more on God and not only himself. This is what God is doing in our lives as he brings us to these things is that we would not rely on us individually, we rely on him. Now, we don't know exactly what this trouble was in Asia. But we know that Paul had a lot of trouble. Paul was a, a wounded man many times. But nevertheless, Paul says in verse 10, “he delivered us from such a deadly peril. And he will deliver us and on him. We have set our- there's that word again- Hope that He will deliver us again.” Paul, simply trusted in God that His hope rested on God. Now that hope is just- its not just wishful thinking. It's not just some flippant hope. This is sincere hope. This is absolute confidence in God's promises, absolute confidence in God's promises. That's the hope that Paul is trying to convey here to the Corinthians and to us as well. That we have our hope in God that's based on faith. That's not just based on where we think it might be. Okay. Verse 11, “you also must help us by prayer.” This is Paul, asking this body of believers for prayer for him and his fellow workers in the Gospel. Help us by prayer. So that many will give thanks on our behalf for the blessing granted us through the prayers of many. Paul wanted- he wanted 'em to pray for him. Is that something that we sometimes struggle with as believers, telling people that we need prayer? Paul's not ashamed. He was not ashamed at all here to say he needed prayer. He said he had many struggles. He wanted the prayers of many. He believed in power in prayer. He wanted prayer not only for himself, but his co workers, his companions. How about turn over to the book of James for just a second? The Book of James this should be a fam- familiar passage James five but turn there I want us to look at it for just a moment. James five starting in verse 13. "Is anyone among you suffering. Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. is anyone sick? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with Oil the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who was sick, and God will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven" thats James saying the same thing that Paul said, if you have a need, let others know about it. That they can pray for you. Request prayer, that there's no shame whatsoever in prayer. Sometimes our own pride gets in the way of prayer do you be believe that our own pride stands in the way of people praying for us because we either don't want people to know what's going on. We- we don't want people to think bad about us. Well, from personal experience, you know, we don't think that about people. We just want to know so we can share. The Bible says that we are to carry each other's burdens, amen. That we can share that burden and we can be be prayerful about it. Turn it over to John, I'm going to move toward wrapping things up now. John, chapter 11. We're going to we're going to see an example of the ministry the earthly ministry of Christ, John chapter 11. Gospel of John 11, starting in verse 28. “When she, when she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary saying in private, the teacher is here and he's calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were at- who were with her in the house, consoling her saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they follow her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep. Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you would have been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews that had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit, and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to Him, Lord, come and see.” And finally, verse 35, “Jesus wept.” Jesus wept. So what's the lesson here? Jes-, even Jesus cried for his friends, amen. Even Jesus went to his friends that were in need, and cryed with them. This is God Himself. Think about that. Think about the enormity of this, this is God Himself, not only gone there to comfort them. But he went there and cried with them. He went there and experienced their emotions. He went on to carry their burden like you told us to do. This is what we need to emulate Christ. And one last thing, you don't have to turn over there. But this is a very, very familiar passage over in Romans eight. “Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for, as we ought but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep to words.” Have you ever started praying and say, I really don't want to pray I know I need to pray on what to pray for this is the verse right here. This is the verse but we have to be willing to pray. 27 “and he searches the heart knows what is in the mind of the Spirit because the Spirit intercedes for the saints, according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good for those who called- who are called according to His purpose. All things work together for good.” Recently, I was asked to do a couple talks about Lee, and Jackson, general Lee and general Jackson. And as I was researching Jackson, and I've read this story before about his death, when Jackson was wounded, he told them that it was God's will. And he told them that if he died, it was God's will. His preacher, his chaplain, had, in fact, just preached this same sermon, right before Jackson was wounded. And he died not too long after that. And when that preacher came to visit him, he was coming at 10 o'clock every morning, or Jackson was laying down. And he Jackson told him, I'm very content. That if God calls me home, is God's will. faith and hope that even though things may not be as we intent, we have to know that God is working all things out all things for good. All things. For those who are called according to His purposes, that's what the same as what the sage. So as I end today, remember the two takeaways I said at the beginning? hope, hope in Jesus, no matter what the circumstances, hope in Jesus, and also prayer, prayer, pray for us. Those that are in the ministry, like Paul says, pray for each other. Amen. Pray for yourself. Pray for yourself. And if you don't know what to say, just humble yourself in prayer and the Spirit's gonna know what to say for you. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much. We thank you so much that Paul has told us that we share in suffering and we know that is for the glory of God. And we pray for God's comfort in all things. In the name of Jesus. Amen.